---
title:  "Protocol"
date:   2020-09-09
categories: Network
---

## IPv4

Internet Protocol version 4. IPv4, which we often denote as just IP, has been the
workhorse protocol of the IP suite since the early 1980s. It uses 32-bit
addresses (Section A.4). IPv4 provides packet delivery service for TCP, UDP,
SCTP, ICMP, and IGMP.

## IPv6

Internet Protocol version 6. IPv6 was designed in the mid-1990s as a replace-
ment for IPv4. The major change is a larger address comprising 128 bits (Sec-
tion A.5), to deal with the explosive growth of the Internet in the 1990s. IPv6
provides packet delivery service for TCP, UDP, SCTP, and ICMPv6.
We often use the word ‘‘IP’’ as an adjective, as in IP layer and IP address, when
the distinction between IPv4 and IPv6 is not needed.

## TCP

Transmission Control Protocol. TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that pro-
vides a reliable, full-duplex byte stream to its users. TCP sockets are an
example of stream sockets. TCP takes care of details such as acknowledg-
ments, timeouts, retransmissions, and the like. Most Internet application pro-
grams use TCP. Notice that TCP can use either IPv4 or IPv6.

## UDP

User Datagram Protocol. UDP is a connectionless protocol, and UDP sockets
are an example of datagram sockets. There is no guarantee that UDP data-
grams ever reach their intended destination. As with TCP, UDP can use
either IPv4 or IPv6.

## SCTP

Stream Control Transmission Protocol. SCTP is a connection-oriented protocol
that provides a reliable full-duplex association. The word ‘‘association’’ is used
when referring to a connection in SCTP because SCTP is multihomed, involv-
ing a set of IP addresses and a single port for each side of an association.
SCTP provides a message service, which maintains record boundaries. As
with TCP and UDP, SCTP can use either IPv4 or IPv6, but it can also use both
IPv4 and IPv6 simultaneously on the same association.

## ICMP

Internet Control Message Protocol. ICMP handles error and control information
between routers and hosts. These messages are normally generated by and
processed by the TCP/IP networking software itself, not user processes,
although we show the ping and traceroute programs, which use ICMP.
We sometimes refer to this protocol as ICMPv4 to distinguish it from
ICMPv6.

## IGMP

Internet Group Management Protocol. IGMP is used with multicasting (Chap-
ter 21), which is optional with IPv4.

## ARP

Address Resolution Protocol. ARP maps an IPv4 address into a hardware
address (such as an Ethernet address). ARP is normally used on broadcast
networks such as Ethernet, token ring, and FDDI, and is not needed on point-
to-point networks.

## RARP

Reverse Address Resolution Protocol. RARP maps a hardware address into an
IPv4 address. It is sometimes used when a diskless node is booting.

## ICMPv6

Internet Control Message Protocol version 6. ICMPv6 combines the functionality
of ICMPv4, IGMP, and ARP.

## BPF

BSD packet filter. This interface provides access to the datalink layer. It is nor-
mally found on Berkeley-derived kernels.